This is the LaTeX template I will be using for my master thesis. 
I will try to document it nicely and have it compiled without any errors or
warnings. The file and folder structure may seem a bit too much for the
purpose, but this is the way I like it. 

The template may change as long as I work on the thesis, and even after
that. I will always push changes to the repo so that you can profit from
them.

The setup I compile the thesis with is

    Arch Linux
    TexLive 2011.something
    Latexmk 4.28c

Special attention should be paid for Latexmk: This is an amazing make-like
perl script with hundreds of options to fully compile latex
documents. Please check it out. In the root folder of my thesis lays a
.latexmkrc file, so that compilation can be done by running 

    latexmk

and NOTHING else! 

Now to the file and folder structure: 

  preamble/
    Everything that makes the preamble
    goes into the folder named "preamble". You will find the following
    files there: 

    docclass.tex
        This file contains the document class and all of it's options. Some
        basic packages are also included here, like the content encoding
        and the language, and packages that do geometrical stuff like
        margins of the document and so on. 

    packages.tex
        This file includes all external packages that introduce new
        functionality or replace existing functionality. In general, I use
        packages only if they are really needed, to keep everything as
        simple as possible. Every packages is justified in the preceding
        comment. There may be packages that can be removed when the thesis
        is done, like the blindtext package. These serve the purpose of
        having content in this template and are marked as removable in the
        comments. 

    commands.tex
        This file contains custom commands that are not important enough
        for their own .sty file. All commands are described in great
        detail. (At least I hope that I stick to it. :-) )

    settings.tex
        later.

  bibliography/
    This folder contains the bib file and additional non-tex files that are
    needed for the bibliography. A custom bib style would go here as well.

    bibliography.bib
        The file with all the references defined. 

  content/
    Here comes all the content (text and figures, mainly)

    figures/
        All figures should go in this folder

    contentfile1.tex, contentfile2.tex, ...
        The actual content is in these. Name those wisely, and try not to
        use chapter numbers or so in the file names, since this makes
        reordering them a hassle.

  pages/
    Pages that can not really be described as content go here, like the
    frontpage, appendix, table of contents, etc.

    appendix.tex
        The appendix of the thesis

    bibliography.tex
        The references page.

    frontpage.tex
        The front (title) page of the thesis. Note that in this template I
        use some kind of simple place holder.

    tableofcontents.tex
        The table of contents page. 

  thesis.tex
    The main tex file. It glues together all the external files and should
    be compiled (latexmk takes care of that!)

  .latexmkrc
    The latexmk configuration file.

  .gitignore
    The stuff that should be ignored by git.

  README
    this file
    

I hope you find this template useful. Feel free to fork it and change it
for your purposes.